Dest rule evaluation subtlety (#4653)
istio/istio.io: content/docs/ops/traffic-management/troubleshooting/index.md

propagation will take longer and there may be a lag time on the
order of seconds.

## Destination rule policy not activated

Although destination rules are associated with a particular destination host,

> the activation of subset-specific policies depends on route rule evaluation.

Author: the reference doc says `Traffic policies to apply ...`, so I could say `the application of subset-specific ...` here, but I prefer `the activation of ...`.

> the activation of subset-specific policies depends on route rule evaluation.

Reviewer: We can leave activation for now. I've added an issue to include it in the glossary. #4662

The first step in Envoy's service routing process is to evaluate the route rules in
a virtual service corresponding to the requested host, if there are any,

> to determine if a subset (that is, specific version) of the destination is being routed to.

Author: blue/green deployments are two version deployments of the same service, whether the label identifying them is `version:` or something else.

> If so, the policies corresponding to the subset, if any, are then evaluated.

Author: it's Envoy, I'll clarify the wording

Consequently, policies that are defined for specific subsets are only applied if
the corresponding subset is explicitly routed to.

> For example, consider the following destination rule as the one and only configuration defined for the

Reviewer: This text and the text after the example should be combined to give readers the full context they need to understand the example. My suggestion does this but it is still unclear what applies the round-robin routing to the traffic.
```suggestion
When there are no routing rules in a corresponding virtual service and the following destination rule is the only configuration defined, the default round-robin routing applies.
```

> *reviews* service, that is, there are no route rules in a corresponding virtual service definition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: reviews
spec:

>   host: reviews

Reviewer: Having the value of `name` and `host` in an example destination rule leads to a lot of confusion. Please see my other comments on this regard.

  subsets:
  - name: v1
    labels:
      version: v1
    trafficPolicy:
      connectionPool:
        tcp:
          maxConnections: 100
{{< /text >}}

Since there is no specific route rule defined for the *reviews*

> service, default round-robin routing behavior will apply, which will

Reviewer: Try to avoid giving a description of round-robin balancing here. It doesn't really help illustrate the message you are trying to convey. Maybe using {{< gloss >}}round-robin{{< /gloss >}} combined with an adequate glossary entry?

presumably call "v1" instances on occasion, maybe even always if "v1" is

> the only running version. Nevertheless, the above policy will never be

Reviewer: It's not clear what you mean with "done at a lower level". Readers don't know what is doing it based on the text.

invoked since the default routing is done at a lower level. The rule

> evaluation engine will be unaware of the final destination and therefore

Reviewer: Whose rule evaluation engine isn't aware? Why isn't it aware?

Author: I think I'll remove this part. It's getting into more detail than needed.

> unable to match the subset policy to the request.

Reviewer: The phrase "subset policy" is not clear to readers at this point. Do you mean the subset definition in the destination rule, the subset in the routing rule, or the route established by the combination of both?

> You can fix the above example in one of two ways. You can either move the

Reviewer: Use a bullet list to introduce the two possible solutions:
```suggestion
To ensure that the routing and destination rules work as intended, there are two possible solutions:
```

> traffic policy up a level in the destination rule to make it apply to any subset:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Move the traffic policy in the destination rule up a level to make the traffic policy apply to any subset, for example:
```

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:

>   name: reviews

Reviewer: Does the name of the destination rule need to be the same as the service? The two being the same can confuse readers particularly when the service name is uses as the value of `host`.
```suggestion
  name: reviews-dr
```

Author: In this case, the name must be the same because the example is from our bookinfo sample, but in general, even if we want to use unique names, using short forms like `-dr`, `-svc`, etc., is generally not popular in any programming language naming conventions, so I wouldn't want to encourage it in Istio.

spec:
  host: reviews
  trafficPolicy:
    connectionPool:
      tcp:
        maxConnections: 100
  subsets:
  - name: v1
    labels:
      version: v1
{{< /text >}}

> Or, better yet, define proper route rules for the service in the virtual service definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define proper route rules for the service using a virtual service.
```

> For example, add a simple route rule for "reviews:v1":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For our example, you must add a simple route rule for the `v1` subset of the `reviews` destination:
```

> {{< text yaml >}}

Reviewer: This virtual service is a perfect example of what I meant regarding the name of the destination rule. The same value, `reviews` is used in this example for the name of the virtual service, the service, and the host name for destination rule. It would be incredibly helpful if we used different names for each in our examples. We can make a separate recommendation for production environments where I think there might be some ease-of-use value in using the same name for everything. Please change the name of the virtual service, the destination rule, and the corresponding values of `host` and `hosts` for clarity.

Author: First of all, this example is from our Bookinfo sample application, so using a different naming convention is not an option. Second, we had a discussion about naming conventions for virtual service and destination rules quite a while ago and decided this is a nice simple pattern, so we used it in Bookinfo. Third, this is the operations guide, not the Istio 101 concepts, so readers are already using Istio and should not be so easily confused.

apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: reviews
spec:
  hosts:
  - reviews
  http:
  - route:
    - destination:
        host: reviews
        subset: v1
{{< /text >}}

> Although the default Istio behavior conveniently sends traffic from any

Reviewer: This paragraph reads strangely, tone-wise. Certain words make the tone positive, like "conveniently" but others like "Although" shift the tone towards the negative. To make the tone consistently positive, I suggest:
```suggestion
The default Istio behavior conveniently sends traffic from any source
```

> source to all versions of a destination service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all versions of the destined service without you setting any rules.
```

> without any rules being set, as soon as version discrimination is desired

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As soon as you need to differentiate between the versions of a service, you need to define routing rules.
```

rules are going to be needed.

> Therefore, setting a default rule for every service, right from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to this fact, we consider a best practice to set a default routing rule 
```

> start, is generally considered a best practice in Istio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for every service from the start.
```
